20 TWENTY
TWO ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING I&apos;M CANDICE CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS,
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY METCALFE&apos;S.
AN APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS
STANADYNE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RACE AND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
THEIR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER A
MEETING INSIDE NINE THREE EIGHT
ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO
ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS WE MAY ASK
QUESTIONS OF EITHER THE CITY OR
THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS YOUR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED FINALLY
AND QUALIFIED PARTY WHO IS
AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION OF THE
BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT DECISION
TO THE WASHTENAW COUNTY CIRCUIT
COURT ON A TIMELY BASIS.
&gt;&gt; ROLL CALL KANDICE BREYER I
AM HERE MCDANIEL HERE DAVE DAVE
ALREADY ALREADY HERE.
CHRIS MADIGAN JULIA GOOD HERE.
CHRIS FARLEY TODD GRANT YOUR
ELIZABETH NELSON HERE CHRISTINA
GOOSESTEP HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM
NEXT STEP WE HAVE APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
DO I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOTION FROM JULIA.
THANK YOU.
SUPPORT SUPPORT FOR ME.
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR.
&gt;&gt; YES, I OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF MINUTES WE HAVE MINUTES FROM
THE JULY TWENTY SEVENTH TWENTY
TWENTY TWO CBA MEETING.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS TO THOSE
MINUTES?
IF NOT, DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES FROM JULY
MOTION FOR MY SUPPORT?
&gt;&gt; JULIA, THANK YOU ALL IN
FAVOR OF A POST.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS WE
HAVE PETITION ZIBA TWENTY TWO
DASH TWO ZERO ONE FIVE SIX
ELEVEN IRONWOOD DRIVE MAP.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
DENHA AND SAMUEL ROBINSON ARE
HERE TONIGHT REQUESTING A
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT TWO TO FENCES TO OUR
EXISTING SIX FOOT HIGH ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT OPAQUE FENCE TO
REMAIN IN THE FRONT OPEN SPACE
ON DEXTER AVENUE.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL GO THROUGH AGAIN THE
PICTURES HERE YOU CAN SEE THE
SUBJECTS I OUTLINED IN YELLOW
HERE ON THE MAP ARE ONCE ZONING
CAN KIND OF ASSUMED OUR AREA TO
GET SOME PERSPECTIVE AND WE&apos;RE
ZOOMING IN TO THE SUBJECT SITE
AGAIN.
THE HOUSE WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
TWO THOUSAND AND TWENTY BY A
DIFFERENT OWNER.
THAT OWNER DID PUT UP THE FENCE
THAT IS THE SUBJECT OF THE
VARIANCE FOR YOU GUYS TONIGHT.
THAT FENCE WAS CONSTRUCTED
AGAIN ABOUT THE SAME TIME AS
THE AS THE AS THE HOUSE WAS
CONSTRUCTED.
WE DO NOT HAVE A FENCE PERMIT
AT THE TIME THAT WAS PULLED ON
THAT.
SO WE THINK IT WAS JUST KIND
OF CONSTRUCTED BY THE BUILDER
AS THEY BUILT THE HOUSE AT THE
TIME.
WHAT THE RESTRICTIONS ARE FOR
THE FRONT OPEN SPACE FENCES
FOUR FEET HIGH AND 50 PERCENT
OPAQUE CAN SEE AGAIN JUST AS
THIS IS THE PLOT PLAN OF THE
HOUSE BEFORE IT&apos;S CONSTRUCTED.
OF COURSE THERE&apos;S NO FENCE
SHOWN ON THE FLIGHT PLAN
PICTURES FROM THE PETITIONER
OF THE SUBJECT FENCE AND YOU
CAN SEE DEXTRAN ROAD IS
DIRECTLY BEHIND THAT FENCE AND
REALLY THAT CONCLUDES THE
PETITION HERE FOR YOU GUYS
TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I&apos;M AVAILABLE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS, ELIZABETH?
I WANT TO GO BACK TO THE
PICTURE YOU HAD OF THE FENCE
WHERE YOU SAID THAT DEXTER WAS
BEHIND THAT WHAT LOOKS LIKE A
CORNER WHICH SIDE OF THAT
PICTURE IS IT LOOKS LIKE THERE
ARE HOUSES BEHIND ONE PART
OF THE FENCE.
YEAH.
SO WE&apos;RE LOOKING SORRY.
SO WE&apos;RE LOOKING THROUGH THE
HOUSE.
YOU SEE THE BLUE HOUSE IS
ACROSS DEXTER ROAD.
OH BASICALLY.
SO THAT FENCE OF THE FENCE THAT
WE HAVE WHERE THE TWO PINE
TREES THAT&apos;S RUNNING PARALLEL
TO DEXTER AVENUE THERE AND THEN
ACROSS THE STREET IS WHERE THAT
BLUE HOUSE IS.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS IS ON THE CORNER
OF YOU AND I THINK WE HAVE A
BETTER KIND OF PERSPECTIVE
HERE.
SO THE FENCES ALONG THE BOTTOM
OF WHAT YOU SEE.
SO THE PICTURE WAS TAKEN
BASICALLY KIND OF FROM LIKE THE
BACK PORCH AREA LOOKING OUT THE
BLUE HOUSE IS DIRECTLY ACROSS
DEXTER ROAD HERE.
&gt;&gt; OH, SO THE FRONT OPEN SPACE
AGAIN IS THE WAY THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR DEFINES IT IS ANY
OF THAT FIRST TWENTY FIVE FEET
AND THERE ARE ZONING DISTRICT
FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY WHETHER
OR NOT THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
IS LOCATED THERE OR NOT, IT&apos;S
STILL CONSIDERED FRONT
ACCORDING TO THE ZONING CODE .
WAIT, SAY THAT AGAIN.
SO THAT&apos;S THE YOU&apos;RE YOU&apos;RE
SAYING THAT THAT THAT COUNTS AS
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE FOR
DEXTER ROAD ACCORDING TO THE
ZONING CODE , ANY FRONTAGE ANY
PROPERTY LINE ALONG PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY IS CONSIDERED A
FRONT OF THE HOUSE ITSELF
DOESN&apos;T FROWN UPON THAT BECAUSE
IT HAS A FRONTAGE ALONG PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY THAT IS CONSIDERED
A FRONT.
&gt;&gt; IS IT IS IT LIKE A CORNER
HOUSE?
&gt;&gt; IS THAT NO.
NO THIS IS NOT A CORNER.
OK, ALL IT&apos;S JUST THE LOWER
PROPERTY LINE HERE YOU SEE KIND
OF ALONG THAT BOTTOM THAT IS SO
THE SOUTHERN PROPERTY LINE I
GUESS YOU COULD SAY THAT&apos;S THE
DIRECT FRONT YOU WANT DEXTER
ROAD AND THEN THERE&apos;S HOUSES
LOCATED ON BOTH SIDES SO IT&apos;S
LOCATED ACCESS IS FROM
WIREWOOD.
THAT&apos;S WHY THE ADDRESS IS ON.
SO THAT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
CONFUSING THERE BECAUSE OF IT
WAS A LAND DIVISION.
SO THE WAY THAT ALL THOSE
HOUSES ARE ADDRESSED OFF
OF IRONWOOD BUT OBVIOUSLY THEY
DON&apos;T FRONT DIRECTLY ON IT.
OK, THANKS MATT.
IS THAT A CURB CUT?
THAT&apos;S THAT SOUTHWEST CORNER
RIGHT THERE THAT GOES TO THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY, OK?
YES.
THIS PICTURE WAS SLIGHTLY
SKEWED PROBABLY WHERE THEY TOOK
IT SO IT HAS SHIFTED OVER.
OK, DAVE MAN I&apos;M USED TO
GETTING PHOTOS FROM EVERY SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY WHEN JOHN DOES
IT THE I&apos;VE GOT A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS THAT I&apos;M SEEING
THE CORNER THERE ARE TWO FENCES
.
YEAH.
HOW MANY SIDES OF THIS HOUSE
HAVE FENCES AND THEN ANOTHER A
SECOND QUESTION IS ARE THERE
SIDEWALKS ALONG THIS SECTION
OF DEXTER ROAD?
THERE&apos;S NO SIDEWALKS ON THAT
SIDE OF DEXTER ROAD.
CORRECT.
AND THE FENCE GOES THERE&apos;S
THREE THE FENCES ON THREE SIDES
BASICALLY.
SO YOU&apos;VE GOT THE SOUTHERN SIDE
WHICH OBVIOUSLY IS ADJACENT TO
THE ROAD AND THEN TWO
PERPENDICULAR SIDES THAT LEAD
UP THERE THAT ALSO HAS PART
OF THE FENCE SO THAT WOULD BE
SUBJECT OF I&apos;M TRYING TO SHOW
YOU IF WE HAVE A RIGHT HERE
BASICALLY THE WAY THAT THE
FENCE SO THIS IS ORIENTED THE
WAY YOU SEE THE SAME WAY YOU
SEE THE OTHER PICTURES THE
SOUTH IS TO THE BOTTOM OF SO
THAT THE FENCES IS ANYTHING
TWENTY FIVE FEET FROM THAT
PROPERTY LINE WHAT IS
CONSIDERED THEIR FRONT YARD.
SO PRIOR TO THE FENCE ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE LOT WOULD HAVE TO
BE GO DOWN TO 50 PERCENT FOUR
FEET AS WELL NOT JUST DIRECTLY
ALONG THE FRONT ANYTHING WITHIN
THE FRONT OPEN SPACE DOES.
YES, A FOLLOW UP QUESTION I
KNOW THE CITY IS SLOWLY
PLANNING TO DO AND PRIORITY
HOUSING SIDEWALK FELONS WHERE
THERE AREN&apos;T SIDEWALKS.
DO YOU WHERE DEXTER ROAD THIS
SIDE OF DEXTER ROAD IS ON THAT
PRIORITY LIST?
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T I&apos;M SORRY.
THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW IT I DON&apos;T
KNOW THAT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU ELIZABETH.
SOMETHING YOU SAID MADE ME HAVE
ANOTHER QUESTION.
SO IS
THE IS THE VARIANCE THE
CAPACITY OF THE FENCE OR IS IT
THE DISTANCE FROM THE LIKE THE
FRONTAGE?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S BOTH A HEIGHT BECAUSE
IT CAN ONLY BE FOUR FEET HIGH
AND IT CAN ONLY BE FIFTY
PERCENT OPAQUE.
SO THEY WOULD NEED A VARIANCE
BOTH BECAUSE OF THE FENCE RIGHT
NOW SIX FEET HIGH IN ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT OPAQUE SO THEY
NEED A VARIANCE OF TWO FEET TO
ALLOW THEM TO GO TO SIX FEET
AND BASICALLY FIFTY PERCENT
CAPACITY TO ALLOW TO GO TO 100
PERCENT CAPACITY SO THE ENTIRE
FRONT YARD HAS TO BE SO
EVERYTHING BASICALLY THEIR
BACKYARD IS REALLY IS ALMOST AN
ENTIRE FRONT YARD AWAY THE WAY
THE ZONING WORKS.
SO ON THIS PICTURE THE FRONT
LIKE THAT HOUSE IS SITUATED
ABOUT TWENTY FIVE FEET OR A
LITTLE BIT MORE FROM THAT EDGE
OF THAT PROPERTY LINE.
SO THAT AGAIN WOULD THE FRONT
YARD THAT ENTIRE AREA IF YOU
DRAW A LINE ACROSS THE LOTS THE
REAR OF THEIR HOUSE TO THOSE
PROPERTY LINES, THEN THE FENCE
WOULD HAVE TO BE FIFTY PERCENT
AND LIKE BASICALLY A PICKET
FENCE FIFTY PERCENT PICK AND
FOUR FEET HIGH SO IT&apos;D BE THEIR
ENTIRE FRONTAGE LONG DEXTRAN.
SO IT MAKES NO DIFFERENCE HOW
THE DISTANCE THAT IS BETWEEN
THE HOUSE AND THE AND DEXTER
ROAD THAT MAKES NO DIFFERENCE
NOT ONLY FOR THE BACK
REQUIREMENT.
&gt;&gt; CORRECT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS JULIO.
&gt;&gt; SO IMPACTO USAGE IT&apos;S THEIR
BACKYARD SO THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR
IS IT ALL ORIENTED AWAY FROM
DEXTER?
&gt;&gt; YES.
WELL, YEAH, EXACTLY.
THEY&apos;RE BOTH IT WAS RECENTLY
WELL FUNNY I WAS ORIGINALLY
FACING THE ROAD BUT NOW THEY
ORIENTED IT SO IT DOES PHASE
BACK SO THAT&apos;S THEIR BACKYARD
AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
ALL RIGHT IF THE PETITIONERS
HERE IF YOU COULD PLEASE COME
FORWARD, STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD AND SIGN IN YOU&apos;LL
HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; HI, MY NAME IS SAM ROBINSON
.
I ALONG WITH MY WIFE DENHA WE
ARE THE HOMEOWNERS AT SIX
ELEVEN IRONWOOD DRIVE.
WE&apos;RE HERE TONIGHT AS IT&apos;S
ALREADY BEEN SAID SEEKING A
VARIANCE FOR THE FENCE THAT
RUNS ALONG DEXTER AVENUE ON OUR
PROPERTY FOR THE FOLLOWING
REASONS I THINK AS HAS BEEN
SAID ALREADY I UNDERSTAND THE
CODE BUT THAT AREA OF THE HOUSE
IS IS FUNCTIONALLY OUR BACK
YARD.
THERE IS NO ENTRANCE INTO OUR
YARD OR PROPERTY ALONG DEXTER
AVENUE IN INGRESS AND EGRESS
OUR FRONT DOOR, OUR MAILBOX,
THE ENTRYWAY INTO OUR HOME IS
ON THE PORTION OF THE DRIVEWAY
ALONG IRONWOOD WITH DRIVE THAT
IS A SHARED DRIVEWAY WITH THE
OTHER PROPERTIES ALONG THE ROAD
THERE IT IS MY BELIEF THAT
BASED ON THIS THERE IS NO FENCE
AROUND THE AREA THAT IS
FUNCTIONALLY THE FRONT OF OUR
HOUSE WHICH MEANS THAT THE
CURRENT WAY THAT THE FENCE IS
SET UP IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
INTENT OF THE ORDINANCE WHICH
IS DESIGNED TO HAVE CERTAIN
FENCE RULES AROUND THE FRONT
OF THE HOME.
THE FENCE ALSO IS A IS A SAFETY
MEASURE.
WE DO HAVE A DOG WHEN WE BOUGHT
THE HOUSE PART OF THE INTENT
WAS TO KEEP OUR ANIMALS SAFE.
DEXTER AVENUE IS A 35 MILE AN
NOW ROAD AS IT&apos;S BEEN NOTED
THERE IS NO SIDEWALK.
YOU KNOW THERE IS QUITE A BIT
OF DISTANCE BUT GOD FORBID
THERE WAS AN ACCIDENT OR A
VEHICLE SWERVING OR SOMETHING
THAT FENCE IS A BARRIER BETWEEN
US AND THE TRAFFIC ON EXTRA
ROAD.
FINALLY AS IT WAS NOTED, THE
PREVIOUS HOMEOWNER WHO WAS ALSO
THE BUILDER INSTALLED THE
FENCE.
THAT FENCE WAS PRESENT WHEN WE
FIRST TOURED THE HOME IN
JANUARY OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE
AND WHEN WE PURCHASED THE HOME
IN MARCH OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE
REPLACING THE FENCE WOULD
REPRESENT A SIGNIFICANT
FINANCIAL COST BOTH IN REMOVING
THE EXISTING FENCE AND THEN
REPLACING IT WITH NEW MATERIALS
AS WELL AS THE FENCE IS IN GOOD
CONDITION SINCE MOVED
DEMOCRATIC PAINTED SO IT
DOESN&apos;T ROT OR ANYTHING WE TAKE
CARE OF THE FENCE AND SO YOU
KNOW IT&apos;S A WASTE OF A
FUNCTIONAL GARDEN MATERIAL AND
THEN FINALLY THE LAST THING
I&apos;LL SAY IS THAT ONE OF THE
THINGS ON APPEAL APPLICATION
THAT WE FILLED OUT ASKED ABOUT
SELF-IMPOSED DIFFICULTY.
THIS IS NOT A SELF-IMPOSED
DIFFICULTY.
WE DID NOT PUT UP THE FENCE AND
SORT OF HOPE TO SEEK
FORGIVENESS LATER THE FENCE WAS
PUT UP AGAIN BY THE PREVIOUS
HOMEOWNER AND BUILDER AND WE
WERE NOT AWARE UNTIL WE
RECEIVED THE ZONING VIOLATION A
COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO THAT THEY
DIDN&apos;T PULL A PERMIT AND THAT
IT DID NOT MEET CITY CODE .
SO AND IT&apos;S ALSO A UNIQUE
SITUATION GIVEN THAT THE WAY
THE HOME FACES THAT THAT IS
FUNCTIONALLY OUR BACKYARD.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER HERE?
&gt;&gt; YES, MR. ROBINSON, I&apos;M A
LITTLE ON THE FENCE ON THIS
ISSUE.
I HAD TO SEE OBVIOUSLY
SYMPATHETIC BECAUSE YOU DIDN&apos;T
DO IT.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
BUT YOU ALSO SAY THAT IF YOU
WERE TO REPLACE THE FENCE YOU
WOULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT
FINANCIAL COSTS.
WHAT WOULD HAVE BEEN HELPFUL TO
ME WOULD HAVE BEEN TO SEE WHAT
THOSE COSTS ARE.
I MEAN IF IT&apos;S 10000 DOLLARS
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT A BIG THING
BUT IF IT&apos;S A THOUSAND BUCKS,
YOU KNOW, IT WAS A THOUSAND
BUCKS TO GET HERE.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S A LITTLE PAINFUL
BUT DOABLE.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA HOW
MUCH THIS WOULD CAUSE I MEAN I
DON&apos;T BUT I WOULD PUSH BACK ON
THE POINT THAT THE DOLLAR
AMOUNT MATTERS WHEN ULTIMATELY
WE WOULD BE ANSWERING
FINANCIALLY FOR A BUILDER NOT
FALLING CITY CODE .
YOU KNOW, THIS BUILDER FRANKLY
BUILDS ALL OVER ANN ARBOR AND
IS VERY ACTIVE.
SO UNLESS THE CITY WAS THEN
GOING TO GO EXAMINE AND MAKE
SURE THEY PULLED PERMITS FOR
ALL THE HOMES THAT HAVE BEEN
RECENTLY BUILT THAT ARE
ACTIVELY BEING BUILT TO MAKE
SURE WE&apos;RE ULTIMATELY ANSWERING
FINANCIALLY FOR A DECISION THAT
WE WERE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR AND
I HAVE A SECOND QUESTION.
SO IN THE PICTURE IT LOOKS LIKE
THERE WERE TWO PARALLEL TO THE
GROUND TO TO BITE ROWS OF TWO
BY SIXES OR TWO BY FOURS AND HE
THOUGHT ABOUT JUST LOWERING
YOUR FOOT BY CUTTING THE TOP
PART OFF, HAD TO DROP IT DOWN
TO LIKE FOUR AND A HALF TO FIVE
FEET.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH, I WE WOULD BE I
SUPPOSE OPEN TO IT.
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
THANK YOU.
YES I PICKING UP ON THAT LAST
COMMENT JUST JUST UNDERSTANDING
IF THERE&apos;S BEEN ANY ANY STUDY
DONE TO MODIFY THE EXISTING
FAN.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU HAVE THE POST RUNNING
EVERY I DON&apos;T KNOW JUST
GUESSING WHATEVER 12 TO 16 FEET
OR SOMETHING.
&gt;&gt; PERHAPS YOU COULD KEEP THOSE
POSTS AND THEN THE INFILL WOULD
BE MODIFIED AND THAT WOULD BE
MAYBE MORE FINANCIALLY, YOU
KNOW, JUST PUT YOU IN A BETTER
SPOT THAN JUST ASSUMING ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT OF IT HAS TO GO
DOWN.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW IT HAS TO BE
DEMOLISHED.
YEAH, MY MY ONLY CONCERN WHICH
MAYBE CLARIFICATION HE WAS
TALKING ABOUT THE THE SIDE
PORTIONS AS WELL WHICH IS NO
ONE HERE IS A PROBLEM BUT THE
NEIGHBORS NEXT DOOR HAVE A DOG
AND WE HAVE DOG AND YOU KNOW
THE DOG NEXT DOOR IS FAIRLY BIG
AND WHEN IT&apos;S PHYSICALLY MOVED
TO THE FENCE WHEN IT&apos;S BARKING
AND SO THERE WAS MORE OPACITY
OR ANYTHING I WOULD HAVE A
LITTLE BIT OF CONCERN THERE.
BUT AGAIN, MAYBE THAT&apos;S A
RELATIVELY MINOR ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; I HAD ANOTHER QUESTION TOO.
&gt;&gt; SO I UNDERSTAND AT THE MAYBE
AT THE TRANSACTION OF THE
OF THE OF THE REAL ESTATE
OF THE PROPERTY, WAS THERE ANY
DISCLOSURE ON THE SELLER&apos;S SIDE
THAT MAYBE CHECK THE BOX OR
SAID ANYTHING ABOUT AN ELEMENT
AT THE HOUSE THAT WAS NOT
MEETING ANY CURRENT CODES AND
IF IF THERE WASN&apos;T MAYBE
THERE&apos;S AN OPPORTUNITY TO GO TO
GO BACK AND AND IF IT WAS THERE
WHEN THEY YOU KNOW AND THEY HAD
THE HOUSE IN THEIR POSSESSION.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S JUST AN OBSERVATION.
YEAH, NO, THERE THERE WAS NO
DISCLOSURE AT THE TIME.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO I MEAN IT SEEMS LIKE
THAT COULD BENEFIT YOU GUYS SO
TO CIRCLE BACK ON THAT BUT
THANK YOU ELIZABETH.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT
I&apos;VE EVER BOUGHT A HOUSE.
WELL I KNOW THAT I&apos;VE NEVER
BOUGHT A HOUSE FROM A BUILDER.
I&apos;M CURIOUS DO YOU IN A
TRANSACTION LIKE THAT DO YOU
HAVE THE HOUSE INSPECTED AS AS
YOU DO WHEN YOU BUY A HOUSE
THAT&apos;S LIKE THIRTY YEARS OLD OR
LIKE DID YOU HAVE A HOUSE
INSPECTION?
WE DID HAVE A HOUSE INSPECTION.
I&apos;M CURIOUS ABOUT THAT.
NOT RELATED TO YOU SPECIFICALLY
BUT IT CONCERNS ME THAT THERE
SEEMS TO BE NOT A LOT
OF AWARENESS ABOUT OUR OUR
FENCE ORDINANCE LIKE WE&apos;VE HAD
A COUPLE OF SITUATIONS OF LIKE
PEOPLE COMING HERE NOT BEING
AWARE OF IT AND IT&apos;S BECAUSE IF
YOU HAD AN INSPECTOR THE
INSPECTOR SHOULD HAVE BEEN
AWARE OF THAT I WOULD THINK.
ANYWAY, THANKS.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
NOW IS THE TIME FOR THE PUBLIC
HEARING IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE HERE
FROM THE PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION, WE&apos;LL
FIRST HEAR FROM ANYONE THAT&apos;S
IN PERSON AND THEN WE&apos;LL TAKE
COMMENT REMOTELY.
IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE
MEETING REMOTELY, PLEASE PRESS
DENHA NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND.
STAFF WILL CALL ON YOU OR USE
THE RACE HAND FUNCTION IF
YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING VIA THE WEB
WEBLINK.
I THINK WE HAVE A LETTER FROM
WHAT WE MAY HAVE A LETTER ON
THIS.
YEAH WE DO.
NEIGHBOR ACROSS THE STREET.
YEAH NO OH OH
YES.
&gt;&gt; I WILL NOTE THAT WE DO HAVE
A LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM
KATHLEEN AND MICHAEL IGNATIEFF
SKI AT THREE THREE ONE THREE
DEXTER ROAD
.
THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANKS COURTNEY.
WITH THAT WE&apos;LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION MIKE
.
YEAH, SO I WAS
PRETTY
SYMPATHETIC TO THIS REQUEST.
I HEARD THE PART WHERE THE
TEACHER DID NOT ACTUALLY
RESEARCH HOW MUCH IT WOULD
COST.
SO TO SAY IT&apos;S A SUBSTANTIAL
FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, IT&apos;S PRETTY
HARD WHEN THERE&apos;S NO KNOWLEDGE
WHATSOEVER OF THE DOLLAR AMOUNT
AND I AGREE THAT YOU GO OUT TO
TODD&apos;S POINT TEN THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
ARE VERY DIFFERENT TO ME.
RIGHT.
IF IT&apos;S THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A
NUMBER IN MY HEAD THAT NEEDS
SUBSTANTIAL SUBSTANTIAL IS NOT
ANY THAT&apos;S A DIFFERENT WORD.
IF THE WORD WAS ANY AND I&apos;D
AGREE EVEN A DOLLAR WOULD MEET
THE STANDARD BUT THE THE
STANDARD SUBSTANTIAL WITHOUT A
DOLLAR NUMBER IT&apos;S HARD FOR ME
TO AGREE WITH THAT POINT.
DAVE.
I JUST WANT TO SAY SINCE A
PANDEMIC STARTED I&apos;VE BEEN
TRYING TO WALK BETWEEN SIX AND
EIGHT MILES A DAY ON STREETS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY AND I&apos;VE
BEEN TAKEN BY SOME OF THESE
LARGE OPAQUE SENSORS FENCES
ALONG PEDESTRIAN WAYS AND
THEY&apos;RE THEY&apos;RE TERRIBLE KNOW
TOTALLY YOU ARE FROM SEEING THE
ARCHITECTURAL ASPECTS OF THE
COMMUNITY AND I JUST THERE I&apos;VE
ENCOUNTERED A NUMBER OF THEM
OUT OF SOME OF THEM ARE IN
TERRIBLE SHAPE AND HAVE BEEN
THERE FOR 50 YEARS OR MORE AND
I&apos;D LIKE TO ENABLE THE CITY TO
GO AFTER THOSE AND GET THEM OUT
OF HERE.
MEANWHILE, I SEE NEW FENCES
GOING UP ALONG THESE PEDESTRIAN
THOROUGHFARES THAT ALLOW WITH
LIMITED CAPACITY TO FOR PEOPLE
TO SEE THE NEIGHBORHOOD, SEE
THE HOMES, SEE THE
ARCHITECTURAL STYLE, THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ADDITIONALLY I LOOK AT THIS
DEXTER ROAD IS FUNCTIONALLY THE
FRONT YARD IN TERMS OF HOW THIS
IS EVEN THOUGH THE ADDRESS IS
ON IRONWOOD THE WAY THIS WAS
BUILT WITH THIS LITTLE
COURTYARD BASICALLY IT&apos;S NOT
THAT&apos;S NOT A WALKWAY.
IT&apos;S NOT A PLACE THAT PEOPLE
PEDESTRIANS WALK.
NOW I HAVE TO ADMIT I HAVEN&apos;T
WALKED OUT MELERO BUT WHEN I DO
TAKE THESE WALKS AND SOME
OF THEM HAVE BEEN QUITE LONG
WAY OUT GOING OUT WASHTENAW,
GOING OUT JACKSON ROAD AND YOU
KNOW, MAKE IT A POINT TO TAKE A
WALK OUT DEXTER AND I&apos;M SORRY
THAT THERE AREN&apos;T SIDEWALKS ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE STREET WHICH
IS SOMETHING I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE
BUT I WILL BE WALKING ON THE
SIDE THAT HAS THE SIDEWALK WHEN
I DO THIS WALK AND PART OF MY
WHEN I&apos;M OUT WALKING I WANT TO
SEE THE HOMES, THE
NEIGHBORHOODS, THE SEE WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING IN BUT I THINK IT&apos;S
TOTALLY REASONABLE OF THE CITY
TO REQUIRE IN THESE FRONT YARDS
TO HAVE A LIMITED CAPACITY AND
LIMITED HEIGHT.
AND I THINK IT&apos;S SOMETHING
THAT&apos;S TOTALLY DOABLE.
I HAVE A DOG WE PUT A FENCE A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO IN OUR
BACKYARD ONLY IN THE BACKYARD
ON THE SIDES WE DID A SHADOWBOX
STYLE OF WOOD FENCE WHICH IS
EIGHTY PERCENT OPACITY BUT IT&apos;S
ONLY FOUR FEET HIGH AND IT IS
IN THE BACK AND IT&apos;S I KNOW IT
CAN BE DONE AND IT&apos;S NOT
EXPENSIVE.
WE DID NOT SPEND TEN THOUSAND
AND WE DID OUR ENTIRE BACK YARD
WITH MOST OF IT WITH SHADOWBOX
ALONG THE BACK FENCE BACK LOT
LINE IS A FENCE BUT I ACTUALLY
WENT TO MY NEIGHBORS IN THE
BACK AND TALKED TO THEM AND
I&apos;VE GOT JUST AS YOU DO I HAVE
TO COMPLIMENT THE BUILDER FOR
PUTTING THE SUPPORT SYSTEM ON
THE INSIDE SO THAT THAT&apos;S NOT
FACING THE OUTSIDE AND
SOMETIMES IN MY WALKS I SEE
FENCES WHERE ALL OF THAT IS ON
THE OUTSIDE THAT EVEN MAKES IT
WORSE.
BUT I THINK THESE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE CITY ARE REASONABLE.
I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE AGAINST US.
I I KNOW IT CAN BE DONE AND THE
REMOVAL YOU COULD PROBABLY DO
YOURSELF SO THERE&apos;S NOT GOING
TO BE COST TO THE REMOVAL BUT I
DO KNOW THAT THERE WILL BE SOME
COST TO THE PUTTING A NEW FENCE
IN THERE THAT MEETS OUR
STANDARDS IF THE BOARD IN
AGREEMENT DENIES THIS VARIANCE
THANKS TO UM I WILL SAY BRIEFLY
I AGREE WITH DAVE I&apos;M GENERALLY
NOT A BIG FAN OF FENCES IN THE
FRONT YARD BUT I WILL DISAGREE
WITH DAVE IN THAT I THINK IN
THIS CASE THE AREA ALONG DEXTER
IS NOT FUNCTIONALLY THE FRONT
YARD.
I THINK IT&apos;S FUNCTIONALLY THE
REAR YARD AND THE FACT THAT
THERE&apos;S NOT CURRENTLY A
SIDEWALK ALONG DEXTER AND NOT
ONE AS FAR AS I KNOW PLANNED IN
THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE THERE&apos;S
NOT A CURB CUT AND DEXTER AND
WON&apos;T BE A CURB CUT AND DEXTER
FOR ME LIMITING THE OPACITY AND
THE HEIGHT OF FENCES IN THE
FRONT YARD HAS A LOT TO DO WITH
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY, VEHICLE
SAFETY, BICYCLE SAFETY, THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS.
AND YOU&apos;RE NOT GOING TO HAVE
THOSE TRAINING MOVEMENTS COMING
IN AND OUT OF THIS PROPERTY
ONTO DEXTER BECAUSE THAT&apos;S JUST
NOT HOW THE SITE IS ACCESSED.
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
LIKE THAT BIG OF A DEAL TO ME
TO HAVE THIS FENCE THERE.
I WILL SAY THOUGH I DON&apos;T I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT I NECESSARILY
WANT TO GRANT A VARIANCE FOR IT
SO THAT IN PERPETUITY THERE&apos;S
ALWAYS A FENCE THERE.
I MEAN IT SEEMS KIND
OF PUNITIVE TO ME TO MAKE THE
CURRENT HOMEOWNERS PAY TO
REMOVE AND REPLACE THE FENCE
WHEN THEY&apos;RE NOT RESPONSIBLE
FOR PUTTING IT UP IS I GUESS
THIS IS MAYBE A QUESTION FOR
MATT IS THERE A WAY TO ALLOW
THIS EXISTING FENCE TO STAY BUT
IN THE EVENT THAT IT NEEDS I
MEAN AT SOME POINT DOWN THE
ROAD IT&apos;LL NEED TO BE REPLACED
BY WHEN YOU HAVE TO REPLACE IT
IT HAS TO CONFORM WITH THE
CURRENT REQUIREMENTS.
BUT THEY DON&apos;T HAVE TO TAKE
THIS ONE DOWN OR IS THAT NOT
THAT&apos;S NOT ON UNFORTUNATELY NO.
WE EITHER HAVE TO BECAUSE
OBVIOUSLY BEEN NOTED IS A
VIOLATION.
YEAH, THERE&apos;S NO WAY TO ALLOW
IT TO CONTINUE.
I MEAN THEY WOULD HAVE TO
REPLACE IT IF IT WAS EVER
DESTROYED, KNOCKED DOWN BY A
CAR OR WHATEVER THEY WOULD TO
BUILD IT NEW.
YEAH, IT WOULD HAVE TO CONFORM
TO THE STANDARDS BUT WE CAN&apos;T I
DON&apos;T HAVE ANY WAY
OF TRIGGERING IT LATER DOWN
WITHOUT THEM RECONSTRUCTING A
FENCE OF MAKING THEM DO IT
LATER.
YOU I&apos;M SAYING TO YOU THERE HAS
TO BE DONE TO A VARIANCE OR
THEN WE HAVE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE
ACTION.
THERE&apos;S NO WAY TO DO IT
UNFORTUNE OK ELIZABETH, I HAVE
ANOTHER QUESTION ABOUT THE
DISTANCE FROM THE ROAD IS THIS
IS THE LOCATION OF THIS FENCE
WHERE AND ANY IN THE SPACE
WHERE A SIDEWALK WOULD
THEORETICALLY GO?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION TO KNOW
BECAUSE THIS IS ENTIRELY SO
THEY&apos;RE FURTHER BACK RIGHT IF
WE CAN I MEAN WAS THAT YELLOW
LINE ON THE MAP PICTURE?
WAS THAT WHERE THE FENCES.
YES.
WELL THAT&apos;S THE PROPERTY LINE
AGAIN YOU LOOK AT THE AREA SO
IT&apos;S SLIGHTLY SKEWED.
OF COURSE, YOU KNOW IT&apos;S NOT
EXACT BUT THAT&apos;S THE PROPERTY.
SO OBVIOUSLY ANY SIDEWALK WOULD
GO TYPICALLY PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
ARE ONE FOOT OFF OF THAT
PROPERTY RIGHTS WOULD BE ONE
FOOT CLOSER TO DEXTRAN HARBOR
ROAD.
SO NO, THAT FENCE WOULDN&apos;T BUT
IT COULD BE WITHIN IF THEY IF
THE SIDEWALK WAS EVER TO GO
THERE AGAIN, IT WOULD PROBABLY
BE USUALLY ONE FOOT OFF THAT
PROPERTY LINE SO THERE COULD BE
ONE FOOT BETWEEN THE SIDEWALK
AND THEN THE THAT&apos;S OK.
AND THEN MY OTHER QUESTION IS
IT&apos;S ONLY THAT IS IT THAT&apos;S
JUST THAT SOUTHERN SECTION
OF THE FENCE THAT IS TOO TALL
AND TOO OPAQUE OR IS IT THE
SIDE SECTIONS AS WELL?
IT&apos;S THE SIDE SECTIONS AS WELL
FOR TWENTY FIVE FEET FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE IN TOWARDS THE
HOUSE IS CONSIDERED THE FRONT
SO IT WOULD BE SIDE SECTIONS AS
WELL AS THE SECTION ALONG HERE
AND AGAIN OBVIOUSLY THAT WAS
THE INTENT IS TO GIVE CORNERS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
YOU CAN HAVE THAT VISIBILITY AT
THAT CORNER SO NO IT&apos;S NOT JUST
THE FRONTAGE ALONG THERE.
IT WOULD BE REQUIRED AGAIN IN
THE PICTURE WE&apos;LL SHOW YOU SO
ON THE PICTURE HERE IT&apos;S THESE
YOU KNOW, CAN YOU SEE MY MOUSE
MOVING?
&gt;&gt; SO YES, I SEE YOUR CURSOR SO
IT&apos;S NOT BUT BUT IT&apos;S NOT THE
WHOLE LENGTH OF THE SIDE.
IT&apos;S LIKE TO THE CORRECT TO BE
TWENTY FIVE FEET FROM THIS FROM
THE EDGE OF THE EDGE BUT FROM
THE PROPERTY LINE BASICALLY IN
SO I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW WIDE THOSE
INDIVIDUAL PANELS ARE EIGHT
FEET OR SO SO COULD BE ALMOST
THREE THREE AND A HALF OF THOSE
PANELS OR SO I&apos;M REALLY I&apos;M
REALLY TORN WITH THIS ONE
BECAUSE I HAVE TO SAY WE WE
HAVE DECIDED ON SOME PETITIONS
THAT WERE SIMILAR TO THIS.
I THINK I REMEMBER ONE ON THE
BACKS UP THE ANTIPAS LANE S
MAIN BUT THIS IS FEELS A LITTLE
BIT DIFFERENT BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT
IT&apos;S NOT A SERIES OF BACKYARD&apos;S
THAT I MEAN ON EITHER SIDE THE
HOUSES ARE ACTUALLY FRONTING ON
DEXTER RIGHT.
IT LOOKS LIKE THIS IS THE OR
MAYBE ONE ON ONE SIDE ON ONE
SIDE IT&apos;S FRONTING DEXTER ROAD
AND THE OTHER SIDE FRONTING
IRON.
YES, THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
OK, YEAH I&apos;M REALLY SYMPATHETIC
TO THE FACT THAT THIS FENCE IS
BASICALLY NEW AND I&apos;M REALLY
FRUSTRATED THAT PEOPLE ARE NOT
AWARE OF THE FENCE ORDINANCE
LIKE THE BUILDER HIMSELF WAS
NOT THAT THAT&apos;S REALLY
FRUSTRATING TO ME THAT THE
BUILDER DID THIS.
YEAH, I&apos;M CURIOUS IF ANYBODY
ELSE HAS ANY REMARKS BECAUSE I
I&apos;M I&apos;M CONFLICTED ON THIS ONE,
CHRISTINE.
I HEAR YEAH.
I&apos;M JUST BUILDING A LITTLE BIT
ON THAT AS WELL THAT THE SCALE
OF DEXTER ROAD AT THIS SPOT
IT&apos;S ONLY TWO LANES.
RIGHT.
SO IT IS NARROW.
I MEAN IT&apos;S NOT A FOUR LANE
ROAD WHERE MAYBE A SOLID FENCE
LINE WOULD BE MAYBE MORE
ACCEPTABLE THAT JUST I&apos;M
LOOKING AT IT.
&gt;&gt; SO GOING BACK TO WHAT DAVID
SAID ABOUT THE PEDESTRIAN SCALE
AND IF THERE IN THE FUTURE IF
THERE&apos;S PLANS TO HAVE A
SIDEWALK, YOU KNOW THAT JUST
HELPS THE TRANSPARENCY
OF EXPERIENCE AND WALKING DOWN
THE STREET EVEN AS A DRIVER IN
A CAR I THINK BECAUSE OF THE
WIDTH IS IS IT FEELS LIKE A
RESIDENTIAL STREET AND IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S VERY IT&apos;S A VERY STRONG
ELEMENT IN THAT BLOCK TO ALL
OF A SUDDEN AND COME ACROSS A
SOLID
FENCE.
SO I DROVE BY AND THAT WAS MY
THAT WAS MY OBSERVATION.
SO I MEAN IT&apos;S UNFORTUNATE
SITUATION BUT I DO FEEL LIKE
THERE IS ROOM TO GO BACK TO YOU
KNOW, TO THE CLOSING JUST TO TO
SEE IF THERE&apos;S ANY OPPORTUNITY
TO HELP A COST SHARE
OPPORTUNITY AND FOR ANY
MODIFICATIONS SO THAT YOU&apos;RE
NOT COMPLETELY REMOVING IT DOWN
TO THE GROUND.
I FEEL LIKE THERE&apos;S SOME ROOM
THERE TO GET TO A WORKABLE
SOLUTION.
BUT ALSO THEN MY LAST COMMENT
PICKING UP ON THE PUBLIC SAFETY
I THINK THAT ALSO WORKS FROM
THE INSIDE OUT AND THAT YOU
DON&apos;T IF WITH A SOLID FENCE YOU
DON&apos;T YOU NEED THAT
TRANSPARENCY FOR PUBLIC SAFETY
AS WELL BECAUSE IN THE
UNFORTUNATE FUTURE SCENARIO IF
THERE&apos;S NEW OWNERS COMING INTO
THE TO THE HOME, THEY COULD USE
IT, YOU KNOW, IN A NEGATIVE WAY
.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THIS HAS HAPPENED
BEFORE WHERE WE&apos;RE YOU KNOW,
JUST TO STORE STUFF, YOU KNOW,
AND IT&apos;S CONCEALED FROM THE
FROM THE PUBLIC SIDE.
SO SO IN GENERAL I I&apos;M IN
SUPPORT OF WELL I HAVE TO
REWORD HOW AND THE WORKSHEET
HERE BUT I WOULD BE DENYING THE
REQUEST TO KEEP THE FENCE AS IS
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU JULIE.
IN GENERAL I&apos;M CONCERNED, MATT,
THAT YOU&apos;RE LIKE I KIND OF WANT
THE DEVELOPER FINED FOR THIS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT WE CONTINUALLY
GET THESE PEOPLE WHO ARE THESE
CONTRACTORS?
NO, YOU HAVE TO GET PERMITS.
I MEAN I&apos;M SORRY ALL THE
CONTRACTORS IN ANN ARBOR KNOW
YOU NEED A PERMIT.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE NOT SOME TOWNSHIP
WITHOUT A CITY HALL IN ANN
ARBOR YOU NEED PERMITS AND WE
ROUTINELY GET THINGS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE BUILDING WITHOUT
PERMITS AND THEY&apos;RE CONTRACTORS
.
SO I&apos;M UPSET ABOUT THAT.
I GENERALLY AM NOT A FAN
OF FENCES.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF PEOPLE RIDE
BIKES DOWN DEXTER.
&gt;&gt; IT FEELS VERY UNSAFE TO ME
BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE DO.
IT IS KIND OF WELL USED BY
BIKERS AND I THINK HAVING THAT
THERE EVEN THOUGH THERE&apos;S CURB
CUTS SO IT&apos;S NOT A DANGER IT
STILL IS VERY UNPLEASANT.
I THINK THE FENCE ORDINANCE IS
PRETTY GOOD AND I DON&apos;T FEEL
LIKE THEY&apos;VE DONE THESE THINGS
LIKE IS IT THE MINIMAL REQUEST
OR WHAT&apos;S THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY BESIDES FINANCIAL?
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S REALLY
MET THE CRITERIA FOR A VARIANCE
.
YEAH, I JUST ALSO WANTED TO ADD
IF WE ALLOW THIS THERE ARE
FENCES ON EITHER SIDE OF THIS
PROPERTY.
WHAT DO WE DO WHEN THE PEOPLE
NEXT DOOR WANT TO PUT UP AN
EIGHT FOOT OPAQUE FENCE?
WHAT WHAT DO WE START DOING
WHEN EAST OF IRONWOOD SOME
OF THESE OTHER HOMES ALONG
DEXTER ROAD DECIDE OH WE WANT A
BARRIER TO THAT TRAFFIC ON
DEXTER ROAD, WE WANT AN EIGHT
FOOT OPAQUE FENCE IF WE ALLOW
THIS THE NEXT ONE THAT COMES
IN, WHAT DO WE DO?
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S LIKE WE NEED
SOME SORT OF CONSISTENCY IF WE
BELIEVE IN THIS ORDINANCE, WE
NEED TO APPLY IT HERE AND ALL
ALONG DEXTER ROAD AND I WOULD
SAY TO MATT IF WE OR INTO OUR
COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVE
ELIZABETH MAYBE DO SOME WORK
NEEDS TO BE DONE AND I KNOW
COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE MORE
VOLUNTEERS AND IT&apos;S REALLY
SHOULD BE ON OUR CITY STAFF TO
DO THIS IF WE CANNOT
RETROACTIVELY FIND THE BUILDERS
IN THESE SITUATIONS.
AND THAT&apos;S A QUESTION FOR THE
LEGAL DEPARTMENT AND THEIR
BUILDERS THAT COME IN TIME AND
TIME AGAIN FOR PERMITS IN THE
FUTURE.
MAYBE IF WE FIND THAT THEY&apos;VE
BEEN BUILT SOMETHING WITHOUT A
PROPER PERMIT OR INSPECTIONS IT
AUTOMATICALLY INCREASES THEIR
FEE FOR THEIR NEXT PERMIT OR
THEIR NEXT THREE MONTHS
OF PERMITS OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
SO THEY&apos;RE ESCALATORY FEE
STRUCTURE ON BUILDERS WHO HAVE
DOCUMENTED VIOLATIONS OF OUR
BUILDING CODES.
SO THAT MIGHT BE ANOTHER WAY TO
GET AT IT RATHER THAN A
RETROACTIVE FINE PROSPECTIVE
FEE INCREASE FOR THESE BUILDERS
THAT IGNORE OUR PERMIT
REGULATIONS.
SO AND TO ME THAT&apos;S THE ISSUE
HERE THAT I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE STAFF
ADDRESS IS HOW DO WE GET IT
THAT SO THIS DOESN&apos;T HAPPEN IN
THE FUTURE AND THAT WE GET AT
SOME OF THE BUILDERS WHO HAVE
DONE THIS IN THE PAST AND WE
MAKE THEM PAY FOR IT
ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION WE READY FOR
MOTION?
I CAN MAKE A MOTION.
THANK.
&gt;&gt; I THINK I&apos;VE GOT A MOTION
THING HERE ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH
TWO ZERO ONE FIVE SIX ELEVEN
IRONWOOD BASED ON THE FOLLOWING
FINDING IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A TWO
FOOT FIFTY PERCENT OPACITY
FENCE VARIANCE FROM CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO SIX
FENCES.
THE APPLICANT IS PROPOSING TO
ALLOW A SIX FOOT ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT OF PACHE FENCE TO
REMAIN IN THE FRONT OPEN SPACE
ALONG DEXTER ROAD.
THERE IS A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
THAT IS EXCEPTIONAL TO THE
PROPERTY AND RESULTS FROM
CONDITIONS THAT DO NOT EXIST
GENERALLY THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
&gt;&gt; THE MOTION THE SECOND TIME
DEEP DIVERSITY DIVERSITY NO TED
GRANT NO ELIZABETH NOTHING NO
JULIA GOOD.
NO CHRISTINA SAID NO.
&gt;&gt; I VOTE YES MCDANIEL NO NO.
&gt;&gt; THE REQUEST IS DENIED MOVING
TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY TWO
DESH TWO ONE SIX SEVEN HUNDRED
AND DRIVE THIS IS NOTED AS
BEING FOR PUBLIC HEARING ONLY.
YES I JUST HAD A LITTLE
BACKGROUND UNFORTUNATELY THERE
WAS A SLIGHT ERROR IN THE
PUBLIC NOTICE BETWEEN WHAT WAS
POSTED THE NEWSPAPER BETWEEN
WHAT AND WHAT WENT ON IN THE
POSTCARDS NOBODY PROBABLY
NOTICED WAS POSTED IN THE
NEWSPAPER.
HOWEVER TO MAKE IT CONSISTENT
AND WE DID NOTICE AS A PUBLIC
HEARING WE&apos;RE JUST REQUESTING
IT TO BE POSTPONED.
I INFORMED OBVIOUSLY THE
PROPERTY OWNER OF THIS AND TOLD
THEM THAT THEY DIDN&apos;T NEED TO
ATTEND BECAUSE WE NEED WE NEED
TO RE NOTICE IT FOR NEXT MONTH.
SO BUT BECAUSE WE PUT IT OUT
THERE&apos;S A PUBLIC HEARING WE
JUST WANT TO SEE TECHNICALLY WE
SHOULD AT LEAST HOLD IT BECAUSE
IT WAS NOTICED EVEN THOUGH
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE IT AGAIN
NEXT MONTH ALL RIGHT.
THAT BEING SAID, IF THERE IS
ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION FOR SEVEN HUNDRED
BURTON DRIVE PLEASE COME
FORWARD IF YOU ARE IN PERSON OR
IF YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FUNCTION IF YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING ON
THE WEB
THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO
BE ANY CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
THAT BEING SAID, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE&apos;LL SEE
THIS PETITION AGAIN NEXT MONTH
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ONE
NINE ONE ONE ONE FIVE FOUNTAIN
STREET.
OK, THANK YOU AND NO ONE ELSE
CAN YOU PROPERTY OWNERS HERE
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM THE
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TWO
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE PERMISSION
TO ALTERNATE CONFORMING
STRUCTURE AS WELL AS A VARIANCE
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT THAT&apos;S
ONE SEVENTEEN POINT ONE SORRY
THAT&apos;S A VARIANCE OF FOR FEET
NINE INCHES FROM THE PREVIOUS
EFFECT OF THIRTY FEET.
SO PERMISSION TO ALTER AS WELL
AS A VARIANCE AGAIN THE OBJECT
PROPERTY YOU CAN SEE IT HERE
ZONED R1 C IN THE CORNER
FOUNTAIN AND ROBBINS&apos; ZOOMED
OUT AREAS FOR THE PERSPECTIVE
AND WE&apos;RE GOING A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IS OBVIOUSLY A
CORNER LOT HAS A BIT OF A
UNIQUE SHAPE TO IT WITH A
LITTLE BEND IN THE MIDDLE THERE
SURVEY OF THE EXISTING SITE AS
IT STANDS NOW.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN THE UNIQUE THING
ABOUT THIS THERE ARE TWO FRONTS
REMEMBER ANY AS WE JUST
COVERED ANY FRONTAGE ALONG A
PUBLIC ROAD IS CONSIDERED A
FRONT.
SO THIS HAS THE SITE HAS TO
FRONT THE REAR IS DEFINED AS
THIS THE SIDE IF YOU WILL, MOST
DISTANT FROM A FRONT.
SO THE REAR IS THE REAR STEP
BACK TO BE AT THE BOTTOM OF THE
SCREEN DECIDES THAT PARK IS
ALONG THE LEFT HAND OR THE WEST
WESTERN SIDE OF THE CASTLE
BASICALLY AND OBVIOUSLY THE TWO
FRONTS ON ROBIN AS WELL AS THE
LONG FOUND HISTORY HERE YOU CAN
SEE THE PETITIONER BECAUSE
OF THE AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK
THAT DOES APPLY IN THIS CASE
BECAUSE OF THE THE STRUCTURES
ADJACENT BACK ON THE AERIAL
PHOTO YOU SEE IT&apos;S A NOW THAT
WAS A LITTLE TOO FAR OUT.
THIS ONE&apos;S A LITTLE TOO CLOSE.
BUT THIS IS KIND OF A UNIQUE
SITUATION IN THAT THE OTHER THE
HOUSE IS IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT
TO THE SOUTH THAT&apos;S THEIR REAR
YARD SO THEIR REAR YARDS BACK
UP TO FOUNTAIN SO THEY DON&apos;T
ACTUALLY HAVE DIRECT ACCESS TO
FOUNTAIN AGAIN CEREALS A LITTLE
TOO FAR OUT.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU CAN KIND OF SEE FROM
THE COURT ARRANGEMENT HERE THAT
OBVIOUSLY THESE HOUSES FRONT
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE LANE THERE
SO THEY HAVE THEIR FRONTAGES
SORRY THEIR REAR YARDS THAT ARE
ADJACENT TO THE REAR YARD
OF THIS.
SO IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
IN THAT SITUATION.
&gt;&gt; AGAIN, THE BUILDING ENVELOPE
THAT&apos;S OUTLINED HERE SO IT&apos;S
RELATIVELY LIMITED HERE YOU
HAVE THE PROPOSED SIX HUNDRED
FORTY TWO SQUARE FOOT ADDITION
IN UNDER THE REAR OF THAT
OF THE CURRENT HOUSE
THEY NEED
PERMISSION TO ALTER BECAUSE
OBVIOUSLY THE HOUSE IS WITHIN
THE SETBACKS.
THE ADDITION DOES NOT CONFORM.
THE ADDITION IS ALSO THE SET
BACK.
SO THAT IS THE PERMISSION TO
ALTER THE VARIANCE AS YOU CAN
SEE THEY ARE GOING INTO THAT
REAR STEP BACK THE ROUSSELOT
BACK ON THIS YOU CAN SEE
IDENTIFY DIRECTLY HERE THROUGH
THE WITH THE LINE THE DASHED
LINE THAT THAT&apos;S RIGHT THERE ON
THE SCREEN SOME JUST A BASIC
FLOOR PLAN.
THEY ARE PROPOSING A GARAGE
OBVIOUSLY WITH AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT ON THE ON THE
UPPER LEVEL OF THAT AND SOME
ELEVATIONS WE CAN SEE THE
OBVIOUSLY THE TOP ONE IS THE
EXISTING ONE.
THE BOTTOM IS THE PROPOSED
ELEVATION AND COMING FROM THE
SIDE AS WELL SOME PICTURES.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE LOOKING DIRECTLY AT
KIND OF THAT FRONT OF THE HOUSE
SITTING ON FOUNTAIN.
SO TO THE LEFT KIND OF BEHIND
THOSE TREES IS WHERE THE
PROPOSED REAR ADDITIONS WOULD
BE AND THERE WOULD BE ANOTHER
KIND OF GARAGE OFF TO THAT SIDE
AS WELL.
SO THERE&apos;S A KIND OF A
SIGNIFICANT IN THAT AREA.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE HOUSE
FROM ROBBINS&apos;.
SO AGAIN THE COURT TO THE LEFT
IS FOLTYN AND THAT&apos;S WHERE THE
ADDITION WOULD BE INTO THE
REAR.
&gt;&gt; SO OBVIOUSLY FROM ROBIN
STREET IT WOULD NOT BE VISIBLE
.
&gt;&gt; THAT CONCLUDES THE
PRESENTATION ON THIS ITEM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS, DAVE?
THIS LOOKS TO ME LIKE HE COMES
UP WITH SOMETHING THAT I
CONTINUALLY COMPLAINING ABOUT
AND THAT&apos;S THE THE AVERAGE
OF THE FRONT SETBACKS.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO ASK YOU A
QUESTION WITH THIS ZONING
WITHOUT THE AVERAGING, WHAT
WOULD THE ZONING CODE REQUIRE
AS A FRONT SET BACK?
&gt;&gt; TWENTY FIVE FEET IS THE
FRONT STEP BACK SO IT WOULD BE
TWENTY FIVE FEET FROM BOTH
ROBIN AND TWENTY FIVE FEET FROM
FOUNTAIN.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU CAN SEE ON THIS HERE
THEIR ACTUAL SURVEY ON THE
SCREEN NOW.
SO IT DOES LOOK LIKE EVEN WITH
WITH THE TWENTY FIVE FOOT NOT
THE AVERAGE THE EXISTING HOUSE
WOULD BE NONCONFORMING ALONG
THE FOUNTAIN AND THEN A NEW
ADDITION THAT THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING
.
&gt;&gt; HOW MANY FEET IS THAT SET
BACK OFF OF HOME THAT BACK
TWENTY SEVEN AND A HALF FEET SO
THAT WOULD CONFORM TO THE FRONT
STEP BACK A FOUNTAIN.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND I NOTE THAT THE
AVERAGING IS BECAUSE ALL THESE
HOMES ON CRISFIELD ARE THERE&apos;S
A LONG DISTANCE SO THEY&apos;RE
AVERAGING THEY&apos;RE REALLY
GETTING HIT BY THIS AVERAGING
WITH THESE BACK YARDS OF A
HOUSE JUST THE FRONT ON
CROSSFIELD.
YEAH.
AND I, I JUST SEE CONTINUING
PROBLEMS COMING BEFORE US TO
ZUBA WITH THIS AVERAGING WHICH
REQUIRES A GREATER SET BACK
SOMETIMES THAN WHAT THE ZONING
CODE WOULD NORMALLY REQUIRE
WITHOUT THE AVERAGING.
SO ANYWAY THAT&apos;S GOING TO
INFORM MY DECISION ON THIS.
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS ACTUALLY
UM CAN YOU SHOW ON HERE SO THE
VARIANCE IS FOR FOUR FOOT NINE
INCH REAR YARD CAN YOU LIKE
WITH YOUR CURSOR SHOW EXACTLY
WHERE RIGHT HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU CAN SEE AND YOU
GUYS CAN SEE MY CRUISER.
YES THAT&apos;S GREAT.
THANK YOU SO RIGHT THIS AREA
HERE IF YOU SEE THE DASH LINE
IS THE REAR SETBACK BACK LINE
THIS AND THEN ALSO GOES UP TO
THE FRONT SET BACK LINE THE
AVERAGE.
SO THIS IS THE PART THAT&apos;S IN
THE SET BACK KIND OF RIGHT HERE
ABOUT FIVE FEET OF THAT IF YOU
STILL SEE THAT IT DOES CONFORM
TO THE SIDE YARD SET BACK WHICH
IS FIVE FEET THAT DASH LINE
THAT&apos;S KIND OF I THINK THAT&apos;S
THE BEST.
YES, THAT IS THE BEST SHOT THAT
WE HAVE THAT OK AND THIS IS TO
BUILD A GARAGE.
ISN&apos;T THERE A GARAGE THERE?
YES.
A GARAGE AS WELL AS AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT ABOVE
IT.
SO THERE&apos;S A ONE CAR GARAGE YOU
CAN SEE SO THIS WOOD THIS IS
THE EXISTING ON THE TOP IS THE
EXISTING PHOTO IS A ONE CAR
GARAGE HERE AND THEN THEY WOULD
BE IN KIND OF ANOTHER ONE CAR
GARAGE PARALLEL.
&gt;&gt; YES.
OH OH OK THANK YOU MATT
CHRISTINE MATT IS ACCESS TO THE
EDDO IS THAT FROM THE DOOR WHEN
LOOKING AT THE PROPOSED FRONT
JUST TO THE LEFT OF THE GARAGE
DOOR THAT IS THAT GO DIRECTLY
UPSTAIRS.
&gt;&gt; YES OK IF YOU SEE KIND OF ON
THIS FLOOR PLAN HERE.
OH YEAH THANK YOU.
AND THEN THE SET BACK I NOTICE
IT&apos;S AN EMPTY LOT TO THE WEST.
YES.
SO I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS WHAT IS
THIS WHAT WOULD BE THEIR SET
BACK THEN AS A SIDE YARD?
WHAT DOES THAT SET BACK?
SO WHICH TO THE THE EMPTY LOT
TO THE LEFT EMPTY LOT?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THEY&apos;RE ALSO THE
SAME ZONING DISTRICT I BELIEVE
SO THAT WOULD BE THERE ALSO I
WANT TO SEE FOR THAT FRONT SET
BACK IT&apos;S 25 FEET IS OK BUT
THEY AVERAGE TO WITHIN ONE
HUNDRED BUT THAT ISSUE IS
FURTHER DOWN HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO YEAH IT&apos;S TAKEN
THAT AS WELL BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE
AVERAGING WORKS ONE HUNDRED
FEET FROM THE PROPERTY LINE.
IT WHETHER IT&apos;S ONE LOT OR TWO
LOTS IT ADDS THEM UP BUT IN THE
AIDOO IT&apos;S NOT GOING FURTHER.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU COULD GO BACK TO
RENDERING NO PROBLEM.
YEAH SO IT ALIGNS WITH THAT
BUMP OUT AT THE NORTH END
OF THE EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ENTIRELY BEHIND THE
FRONT LINE OF THE EXISTING
HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FROM ALL
RIGHT IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE
PLEASE COME FORWARD, STATE YOUR
NAME FOR THE RECORD AND SIGN
AND YOU&apos;LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
LEFT AND KEVIN ADKINS WITH ADAM
ARCHITECTURE IF APPROVED TO BE
THE ARCHITECT FOR THIS THE
HOMEOWNERS ARE BEHIND ME BACK
AND I DON&apos;T HAVE A WHOLE LOT TO
ADD OTHER THAN WHAT&apos;S BEEN
SAID.
WE HAVE WE FELT LIKE WE GOT
DINGED PRETTY GOOD ON THE
AVERAGING STEP BACK OF THE 40
FOOT ON BOTH ROBIN AND IN FRONT
OF THE LOT ITSELF IS ABOUT
EIGHTY ONE SQUARE FEET AND WITH
ALL THOSE SETBACKS THERE&apos;S
ABOUT EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
OF BUILDABLE AREA.
SO ABOUT TEN PERCENT OF THE LOT
IS BUILDABLE WHICH DOESN&apos;T SEEM
COMMON FOR THE AREA AND A
TYPICALLY NOT THE INTENT I
THINK OF THE ZONING CODE TO
KEEP IT SO TIGHT.
WE DID WITH THE TWENTY FIVE
FOOT NORMAL FRONT SET BACK WE
DID GO BEYOND THAT SO WE&apos;RE
TWENTY SEVEN FEET FOR THAT AND
WE&apos;RE JUST ASKING FOR A LITTLE
BIT DOWN AT THE BOTTOM AND I&apos;M
SORRY I THOUGHT I INCLUDED THE
DESIGN FOR THE EDU ABOVE IT
SEEMS TO ME MISSING OUT OF THE
PACKET THERE WAS ANOTHER FLOOR
PLAN THAT LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S
MISSING BUT WE NEEDED THAT
EXTRA SPACE TO MAKE IT A
FUNCTIONAL APARTMENT WITH A
BATHROOM AND A KITCHEN AND MAKE
IT FUNCTIONAL.
OF COURSE IT COULD BE SMALLER
BUT WE WERE TRYING TO MAKE IT
USABLE.
GOOD GOOD PROPORTIONS.
SO THAT&apos;S THE ADDITIONAL FOUR
FOOT SEVEN INCHES INTO THE SET
BACK ON THE SOUTH SIDE ON THE
REAR.
BUT I DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING ELSE
TO ADD.
CERTAINLY CAN ANSWER QUESTIONS
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU QUESTION STEVE,
HOW MANY SQUARE FEET IS THE EDU
AND HOW MANY BEDROOMS ARE IN
IT?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S SIX HUNDRED AND FORTY
SQUARE FEET IN ONE BEDROOM.
&gt;&gt; OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
THE PETITIONER
?
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
YOU&apos;RE WELCOME.
THERE&apos;S ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION.
UM, THERE&apos;S ANYONE IN PERSON
PLEASE COME FORWARD IF YOU ARE
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND ONCE YOU&apos;VE CALLED IN
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FUNCTION
IF ACCESSING VIA THE WEB
.
THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
WITH SAID THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
THAT YES I WOULD LIKE DAY TO
BARDES COMMENTS ON THE
AVERAGING ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT.
I ALSO KNOW THAT I THINK A
PARTICULARLY GOOD LETTER FROM
DAVID THATCHER WHICH DOES A
GOOD ANALYSIS ADDRESSING THE
AVERAGING AND SOME OTHER THINGS
AND THESE TWO THINGS ARE
LOOKING AT THE STAFF REPORT I&apos;M
GOING TO BE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF THIS.
I THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD IDEA AND
ADAM IS VERY NICE.
THERE&apos;S NOT GOING TO IMPACT
ANYTHING SO I&apos;LL BE VOTING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I WILL KNOW BRIEFLY.
THANK YOU FOR THE REMINDER THAT
WE DID RECEIVE LETTER
OF SUPPORT FROM CHRIS AND
MEREDITH TO HOLLIS AT TWO ZERO
SIX CRISFIELD FROM DAVID
THATCHER AT ONE ONE ONE FIVE
FOUNTAIN STREET AND FROM
CATHERINE FRANKLIN AT SIX
HUNDRED CRISFIELD YES GAVE AND
I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT EDITION
IS SET BACK BEYOND WHAT WOULD
NORMALLY BE REQUIRED BY THE
ZONING CODE OTHER THAN IF WE
FOR WENT THE THE AVERAGING WITH
A TWENTY SEVEN FOOT SETBACK
FROM FOUNTAIN I I SEE NO
PROBLEM WITH THIS WITH THE
AVERAGENESS THE ARCHITECT OR
DEVELOPER OR THE BUILDER
POINTED OUT WITH AVERAGING
SETBACK IT MAKES THIS LOT
ALMOST UNUSABLE.
SO I WOULD SAY LET&apos;S STICK WITH
WHAT THE CODE SAYS WITHOUT THE
AVERAGING THE MINOR LITTLE BIT
ON THE REAR SETBACK IS A
VARIANCE GIVEN THE VERY MODEST
SIZE OF THIS 882 SIX HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET ONE BEDROOM I&apos;VE
SEEN EFFICIENCY&apos;S THAT SIZE OR
EVEN BIGGER.
SO I THINK YOU&apos;VE MADE A VERY
MODEST REQUEST FOR THIS EXTRA
SPACE IN ORDER TO CREATE USABLE
SPACE THERE AND IT&apos;S TO YOU
KNOW, TO GET A ONE NICE ONE
BEDROOM OUT OF APARTMENT OUT
OF A 640 SQUARE FOOT SPACE I
THINK IS HOPEFULLY THE
ARCHITECT IS
DOING A GOOD JOB
FOR YOU AND SO I&apos;LL BE VOTING
YES.
I AGREE WITH TODD ON THIS AND
THEN THE POINTS I STATED
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THE AVERAGING
SETBACK AVERAGING THANK YOU.
DO AND KNOW THAT ESPECIALLY
JULIA I KNOW THAT I&apos;M USUALLY
THE STICKLER IN THE GROUP FOUR
CORNERS, YOU KNOW, JUST BECAUSE
IT&apos;S KIND OF LIKE WELL YOU KNEW
YOU BOUGHT A CORNER I WAS GOING
TO BE PROBLEMS BUT I DO FEEL
THIS LOT IS UNIQUE AND IT IS AN
ODD AMOUNT OF SETBACKS THAT&apos;S
REQUIRED AND I AM GLAD TO SEE
THAT THERE IS AN 82 GOING UP
WHILE THEY&apos;RE BUILDING A GARAGE
SO I&apos;M IN FAVOR OF YEAH I&apos;M IN
FAVOR ALSO IT SEEMS SINCE THE
POINT HAS BEEN MADE THAT IT&apos;S
NOT A VERY BUILDABLE LOT.
RIGHT.
SO BUT IT&apos;S THE EDITION IS VERY
MINIMALLY MINIMALLY IMPACTS THE
THE LIGHT ITSELF AND THE
SURROUNDINGS.
SO I&apos;M I&apos;M IN FAVOR OF THIS
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WE
READY FOR A MOTION HAVE I&apos;LL
MAKE A MOTION BUT I DO WANT TO
MAKE ONE ADDITIONAL POINT.
I THINK ADDING A UNIT MANY
OF US ARE IN FAVOR OF DENSITY
AND ADDING UNITS IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE I THINK IT&apos;S
CONSISTENT WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE I KNOW
FURTHER SOUTH ON FOUNTAIN THERE
ARE A NUMBER OF MULTI UNIT
DUPLEXES AND EVEN FOR UNIT
PROPERTIES THAT ARE FURTHER
SOUTH ON FOUNTAIN.
SO I FEEL LIKE THIS ADDING A
UNIT HERE IS A MODEST REQUEST
THAT&apos;S CONSISTENT WITH WHAT&apos;S
GOING ON IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OR
WHAT HAS PREEXISTED IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
NOT EVEN THE NEW MANSIONS THAT
ARE BEING BUILT IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK THIS IS MUCH MORE HUMAN
SCALE IF I COULD JUST TO ADD TO
THAT POINT IT IS ACROSS THE
STREET IS ZONED OUT TO EIGHT SO
ACROSS THE STREET IS ON DUPLEX
ESSENTIALLY RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO THEY CAN HAVE TWO UNITS
BY RIGHT THERE.
SO I MAKE A MOTION ZEBA TWENTY
FOUR DASH TWO ZERO ONE NINE ONE
ONE ONE FIVE FOUNTAIN BASED ON
THE FOLLOWING FINDING AND IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A FOUR FOOT NINE INCH
REAR YARD SETBACK VARIANCE FROM
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE TABLE FIVE
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY DISTRICT DIMENSIONS THE
APPLICANT IS PROPOSING
CONSTRUCTION OF A BUILDING
ADDITION AT THE REAR OF THE
RESIDENCE.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS ALLOWING
THE VARIANCE WILL RESULT IN
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING DONE
CONSIDERING THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
THE ZONING ORDINANCE, THE
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES THAT
WILL BE SUFFERED BY THE FAILURE
TO GRANT THE VARIANCE AND THE
RIGHTS OF OTHERS WHOSE PROPERTY
WOULD BE AFFECTED BY ALLOWING
THE VARIANCE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU DAVE.
QUICK QUESTION.
THAT VARIANCE WITH THAT MOTION
WAS JUST FOR THE VARIANCE NOT
ALSO FOR PERMISSION TO ALTER
THE NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A SEPARATE MOTION
FOR THAT?
WE CAN DO TWO SEPARATE BUT
SEPARATE IF IT DOESN&apos;T MATTER
TO ME EITHER WAY DO YOU WANT TO
DO THEM SEPARATELY OR TOGETHER?
I THINK I&apos;LL GO WITH WHATEVER
THE CHAIR DESIRES.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IN THIS CASE WE
COULD PROBABLY COMBINE THEM OK
FURTHER THE SAME MOTION IS TO
APPROVE ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH
THE FIRST ONE WAS ZIBA TWENTY
FOUR DASCH 2019 THIS ALTERATION
IS ZIBA 22 DASH 2019 ALTERATION
TO A NONCONFORMIST STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF AN
ADDITION THAT WILL BE ATTACHED
TO AN EXISTING DWELLING AT THE
REAR OF THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW CONSTRUCTION TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU DAVE.
THE MOTION GAVE SUPPORT SO
SUPPORT.
THANK TODD JULIA YES CHRISTINA
.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO VOTE YES MCDANIEL YES
DAVE.
DIVERSITY DIVERSITY.
YES.
TODD YES.
ELISABETH YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO
NINE ONE ZERO SEVEN VALHALLA
DRIVE.
THIS WAS POSTPONED FROM THE
JULY MEETING AND IS AGAIN NOTED
AS PUBLIC HEARING ONLY CORRECT
AGAIN WITH THIS VARIANCE IF YOU
ALL REMEMBER IT WAS A VARIANCE
FROM THE PARKING SECTION
OF CODE SINCE THE TIME THEY
ORIGINALLY APPLIED FOR THIS THE
PARKING SECTION HAS BEEN
REVISED SO THERE&apos;S NO NEED FOR
A VARIANCE IN THIS CASE BECAUSE
WHAT THEY WERE REQUESTING IS
ALLOWED BY CODE NOW SO IT WOULD
BE MOOT.
SO THEY&apos;VE WITHDRAWN BUT WE CAN
STILL HOLD A PUBLIC HEARING.
HOWEVER, I DON&apos;T REALLY I DON&apos;T
OR ANYBODY ELSE ON THE LINE BUT
WE CAN STILL OPEN IT UP IF
THERE&apos;S ANYBODY THAT WOULD LIKE
TO COMMENT ON IT.
&gt;&gt; BUT ALL RIGHT.
THANKS, MATT WITH THAT SAID,
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS OPEN FOR
ONE ZERO SEVEN VALHALLA.
IF ANYONE WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE RAISE
YOUR HAND NOW THERE DON&apos;T
APPEAR TO BE ANY CALLERS AT
THIS TIME.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS, COURTNEY.
WITH THAT SAID, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE WILL
MOVE ON.
WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
.
WE HAVE DEALT WITH NEW BUSINESS
AND COMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC
COMMENT IF ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WISHES TO SPEAK ON ANY
ITEMS THAT WE HAVE NOT
COVERED ALREADY, NOW&apos;S THE TIME
PLEASE.
THERE&apos;S NO ONE HERE IN PERSON.
BUT IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE REMOTELY
THAT WISHES TO SPEAK, PLEASE
CALL IN NOW AND RAISE YOUR HAND
.
THERE DON&apos;T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS AT THIS TIME METHOD YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; NO SORRY I JUST WANT TO ADD
SOMETHING AFTER AFTER A PUBLIC
HEARING OR ANYTHING AFTER THE
PUBLIC COMMENT WHICH WE DON&apos;T
HAVE ANY.
ALL RIGHT SO YES SORRY I JUST
WANT TO ONE OBVIOUSLY I
INTRODUCED MYSELF TO MANY
OF YOU AND I THINK I KNOW YOU
SO I WILL BE SUBBING FOR THE
ZIBA UNTIL WE ARE IN THE
PROCESS OF HIRING A NEW ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR.
HOWEVER, AS MANY OF YOU I WAS
DOING THIS PREVIOUSLY FOR MANY
YEARS BEFORE WE HIRED MR.
BARRETT.
HE&apos;S MOVED TO A DIFFERENT
POSITION WITHIN THE CITY SO YOU
GUYS WILL BE STUCK WITH ME FOR
THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE.
SO I THINK YOU&apos;RE GONNA KNOW
HOW TO PROBABLY REACH ME OR I
CAN LET YOU GUYS KNOW.
SO ANY QUESTIONS OBVIOUSLY
ANYTHING REGARDING ZONING BOARD
WOULD NOW COME TO ME FOR FOUR
QUESTIONS.
AND IN THE MEANTIME, IN
ADDITION TO THAT, I DID WANT TO
MENTION THAT WE ARE LOOKING
SETTING UP ANOTHER TRAINING
SESSION FOR THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
I DON&apos;T EXACTLY HAVE A DATE FOR
THAT YET.
HOWEVER, ONE OF THE THINGS AND
I KNOW MR. DIVIDED BROUGHT UP A
COUPLE OF TIMES AS WELL TONIGHT
REGARDING LIKE AVERAGING THINGS
LIKE THAT.
ONE OF OUR ROLES ALSO AS STAFF
AND YOUR ROLES IS QUBA IS TO
HIGHLIGHT THESE ITEMS LIKE
THAT.
I KNOW AVERAGING WAS A SECTION
THAT GOES BACK ALL THE WAY WHEN
I WAS WHEN I STARTED THE FIRST
TIME AT THE CBA.
IF THERE&apos;S THINGS THAT YOU WANT
STAFF TO LOOK AT, WE CAN TAKE
DIRECTION FROM YOU GUYS IF YOU
FEEL AS A BOARD LOOK LOOK AT
THE AVERAGING SECTION.
IT&apos;S NOT WORKING.
WE CAN TAKE THAT DIRECTION FROM
YOU.
SO THAT WOULD BE I THINK A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY.
I MEAN YOU CAN ALWAYS DO IT AT
ANY TIME BUT I WANTED TO JUST
PUT THAT BUG IN YOUR EAR SO
THAT THEN IN ANY OTHER ISSUES
MAYBE YOU GUYS HAVE SEEN UP THE
SEAM HERE FREQUENTLY.
A GREAT EXAMPLE OF THAT WAS THE
FRONT PORCH IS WHERE WE
EVENTUALLY CHANGE THE CODE TO
ALLOW COVERED FRONT PORCHES
BECAUSE WE ARE SEEING I LOOK AT
MR. DIVERSITY SPECIFICALLY FOR
THIS ONE BECAUSE THE FRONT
PORCH BUT WE SO WE CHANGE THE
COLOR TO ALLOW THOUGH.
SO YOU DON&apos;T SEE THOSE ANYMORE
.
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING I JUST WANT
THE BOARD TO BE THINKING OF IN
ANY OF THESE I LIKE THESE
ISSUES WHERE I SEND THEM TO ME
AND ALSO OBVIOUSLY INCLUDE
COURTNEY AS WELL AND THEN WE
CAN FLAG THOSE AND WHEN WE HAVE
A TRAINING SESSION HOPEFULLY BY
THE END OF THE YEAR I&apos;M NOT
SURE WE CAN BRING THOSE UP AT
THAT TIME.
AND AGAIN, YOU GUYS CAN HAVE TO
LOOK UP THE EXACT PROCEDURE
OF IT WHETHER YOU DO IT THROUGH
EMOTION OR I THINK IT&apos;S JUST A
SIMPLE DIRECTIVE SAY YOU KNOW,
WE WANT STAFF TO LOOK AT THIS
SECTION OR NOT SO START THINK
OF ANY OTHER ITEMS THAT YOU MAY
HAVE IN THE MEANTIME.
YES, YES.
MATT, IT MIGHT MAKE SENSE TO
HAVE THE TRAINING SESSION AFTER
THE NEW PERSON GETS HERE.
&gt;&gt; THAT WOULD BE A GOOD CHANCE
FOR ALL OF US TO GET
ACQUAINTED.
WE HAD A GOOD POINT, OK?
YEAH UNFORTUNATELY OK.
YES OK.
YEAH I GUESS ACTUALLY I DON&apos;T
EVEN HAVE A DATE SO IT MAY BE
EVEN THOUGH IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
CLOSE TO THE END OF THE YEAR
NOW BY THE TIME TRAINING THINGS
WORK IT PROBABLY WILL BE BUT
YES THAT&apos;S A GREAT POINT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT&apos;S ONE QUESTION FOR
MATT.
YES.
DO WE HAVE ANY OPEN SLOTS ON
THE BOARD?
&gt;&gt; NO, NOT THIS WELL, THE BOARD
IS TOTALLY YES.
OK, THANK YOU JULIA.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU HAVE THOSE LIKE OH
CHRISTINA LARRABEE&apos;S ALL RIGHT
.
ALL THAT SAID, WE HAVE A MOTION
TO ADJOURN ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU TO JULIUS SUPPORT
I SUPPORT THANK YOU DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR BY POST.
ALL RIGHT.
WE&apos;RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYONE.